Real-world data sources
  WiFi contact paths
  GPS Trajectories
    Not available for some indoor locations.
    Altitude is required to determine which floor of a building one is located.
    GeoLife dataset provides altitude in approximately 45% of their GPS records [GeoLife?]
    Problem of ambiguous location associativity when considering a multi-leveled building.
      exact GPS record may correspond to many unique locations on different floors of the same building.
      potentially problematic for malls, sky-scrapers in urban environments
  Call Detail Records
    [Friendship and Mobility]
      European cell phone service provider.
      Two million users, 450 million phone calls, 455 days.
      Each call records nearest cell tower to both sender and recipient of call.
      Spatially accuracy of approximately 3km.
      Only consider calls between recipients at least five times, between people in the same country.
    [Evaluating Mobility Models]
      For a city such as Seoul, average number of places in most associated cell-tower regions is 11+/- 2.
      A person could visit 11 different places, but the sequence of visits would be lost due to the spatial coarseness of cell tower coverage.
      Likewise, a person under a cell tower could be at any one of the 11 locations ,or they could simply be passing through the location without visiting any of the locations.
      Mobility data captured by cell towers could indicate that a person visited 11 different places.
  Location-based Social Networks
    Richer semantic history.
      Locations in Foursquare are often annotated with unique tags describing a classification of the location.
        e.g. Indian restaurant, historical landmark, supermarket
      Solves the problem of ambiguous location associativity.
    Explicit social networks (who are a user's friends?)
    Provides analyzing correlations between user's movements and friend's movements.
    [Friendship and Mobility]
      From check-in data provided by Gowalla and Brightkite, 84% of people checking in at a particular place have less than 20% of their check-ins preceeded by a friend's check-in at the same place [Friendship and Mobility].
      Gowalla and Brightkite contain explicit social networks.
        Gowalla has undirected friend graphs (both parties must agree to friendship)
        Brightkite has directed friend graphs (possible asymmetric friendships)
    Location-fine to coarse, Temporal fine.
    Some LBSNs do not allow public access to user-specific location traces due to security concerns.
      e.g. Foursquare aggregates check-in information for a particular business, specifying how many
            unique users visited, how many people checked in, etc.
           Twitter provides an avenue for people to publicly share their Foursquare check-ins, and thus
            Twitter coupled with Foursquare allows for associating users to locations at certain times.
    Sporatic frequency, bias towards user privacy. Users not willing to share that they visited a sensitive location.        
  Bluetooth detection events
  Hybrid Datasets
    Nokia Mobility Data Challenge [Interdependence and predictability]
      39 users:
        Mobile phone number, GPS trace, call and SMS history, Bluetooth contact trace, WLAN history.
      Not publicly available for download.
      Friendship information can be inferred by the presence of one user's phone number in another user's address book.
    [Contextual]
      153 participants over 17 months, recording GPS, WiFi APs, calling logs, application interaction logs

Synthetic Models
  Individual mobility models
    [Friendship and Mobility]
      People show strong periodic bx during certain durations of time throughout the day.
      Weekdays have mobility bx alternating between home and work.
      Weekends have mobility bx alternating between home and social network driven locations.
      Three components to model:
        1. Spatial locations regularly visited by user, spatially correlated with a user's work and home location.
        2. Model of temporal movement between locations
        3. Model of movement influenced by social network (e.g. meeting friends)
      Day-specific periodic model
  Methods for evaluation
    


Constraint-based Mobility
  Geographic constraints
  Destinations
    [Friendship and Mobility]
      Discretizing the workd into 25x25km cells, and defining "home" for a particular user as the average position in the cell with the most checkins.
      85% accuracy.
  Velocity
  Temporal Factors
  Social constraints

Spatiotemporal Granularity
  Spatially coarse, Temporally coarse
  Spatially coarse, Temporally fine
  Spatially fine, Temporally fine
    WiFi signatures 
    [Evaluating Mobility Models]
      Place is recognized with room-level accuracy in indoor and outdoor environements using GSM, WiFi, and GPS.
      Movement patterns recorded every two minutes.
      10 users over a period of two months.
    [Contextual]
      153 particular over 17 months, recording GPS, WiFI APs, calling logs, application interaction logs
      

The Predictability of Human Mobility
  Metrics of Interest:
    Population density in spatial region
      [Dynamic population]
        Cell phone records could be used to determine population density, human activity at very fine-scales in urban environments.
        Show figure of Portugal.
    Transition rates between spatial regions
    Sojourn time within current location
      [Contextual]
    
  [Friendship and Mobility]
    10% of human mobility from cellular mobility data is explained by social ties.
    30% of of movement from LBSN is explained by social ties.
    Periodic movement explains 50% to 70%.
    40% accuracy of location prediction at any time. Average relative distance error of 0.23% for cell phone locations and 2.7% for social check-ins.
    NUMBER OF CHECK-INS AS A FUNCTION OF DISTANCE FROM HOME.
      Distribution follows power law with exponential cutoff [FIGURE].
  [Evaluating Mobility Models]
    How much regularity and predictability is inherent in human movements?
    Which features are strongly correlated to temporal bx?
    Which mobility model is best for the prediction of temporal bx?
    Key challenges:
      Quantify predictable regularity in human bx
      Define meaningful features for extraction of useful info
      Predict next location within duration of stay
  [Interdependence]
    Use of multivariate nonlinear predictor can achieve high accuracy in forcasting future user geographic locations
    The concept of mutual information is used to quantify correlation between two mobility traces. It is possible to exploit movement data of friends and acquaintences when available - such as through location-based social networks.
    How the correlation measure through mutual information of mobility traces of two individuals can be used to improve human prediction movement.
    Key findings:
      Multivariate nonlinear time series techniques can improve prediction movement of users by considering movement of people with correlated mobility patterns.
      Additionally, mutual information can be used to select pairs of users as inferred-friends if there is no social ties available.
